---
layout: post
title: contents
---

* Bullet Points
	* Feature summary
	* Description
	* Where/When should PaPy be used?
	* Where/When should PaPy not be used?
	
* Installation
	Installing PaPy the easy way
	Installing PaPy the fancy way
	Develop PaPy

First Pipeline
	The Workflow Graph
  Workflow Execution
  Creating a workflow

PaPy Architecture Explained
	Understanding the object-oriented model
	core components
	The NuMap class
	The Worker class
	Built-in worker functions
	Writing functions for Workers
	Writing functions for output workers
	The Piper class
	The Dagger
	The Plumber
	The additional components
	
Parallelism Explained
	Map basics
	A pipeline is a nested imap
	The task and the tasklet
	IMaps parallelism is defined by a stride
	IMap needs tasks in the right order
	IMap can limit the memory consumption.
	Parallel: local vs. remote and threads vs. processes
	If the order of the results is not important
	Timeouts and skipping
	The parallel stride revisited
	
Inter-Process Communication Explained
	When does it happen?
	Why is it inefficient?

The Produce / Spawn / Consume Idiom

Runtime (Logging, Interaction, Errors and Timeouts)
	Logging
	Interaction with the Plumber
	Errors and Exceptions
	Dealing with Timeouts

Optimization and Tweaking
  Identifying bottlenecks
  Understanding bottlenecks
	Unordered Pipers
	
Examples
	
PaPy for Bioinformatics

Complete Workflows

Known Issues
	PaPy in the Interactive Interpreter
	Object Picklability
	
FAQ
	
Terms
	map
	imap
	NuMap
	Worker function
	worker process / thread
	Worker
	Piper
	Dagger
	Plumber
	input stream
	output stream
	item
	input Piper
	output Piper
	lazy evaluation
	task
	inbox

Application Programming Interface (API)
	papy.core
	papy.graph
	papy.util.codefile
	papy.util.config
	papy.util.func
	papy.util.script
	papy.util.runtime
	numap.NuMap



A parallel pipeline is a workflow, which consists of a series of connected processing steps to model computational processes and automate their execution in parallel on a single multi-core computer or an ad-hoc grid.

You will find PaPy useful if you need to design and deploy a scalable data processing workflow that depends on Python libraries or external tools. PaPy makes it reasonably easy to convert existing code bases into proper workflows.

* project page:
	http://mcieslik-mctp.github.io/papy

* repository lives at:
	https://github.com/mcieslik-mctp/papy.git

* most recent documentation sources:
** http://mcieslik-mctp.github.io/papy

* author email:
** mcieslik-mctp@med.umich.edu

																																								This documentation covers the design, implementation and usage of PaPy. It consists of a hand-written manual and an API-reference. Please refer also to the rich comments in the source code, examples, workflows and test cases (all included in the source-code distribution).

																																								NuMap is a parallel (thread- or process-based, local or remote), buffered, multi-task, itertools.imap or multiprocessing.Pool.imap function replacment. Like imap it evaluates a function on elements of a sequence or iterable, and it does so lazily. Laziness can be adjusted via the “stride” and “buffer” arguments. Unlike imap, NuMap supports multiple pairs of function and iterable tasks. The tasks are not queued rather they are interwoven and share a pool or worker “processes” or “threads” and a memory “buffer”.

																																								The package is tested on Python 2.7+

Hyde is a brazen two-column [Jekyll](http://jekyllrb.com) theme that pairs a prominent sidebar with uncomplicated content. It's based on [Poole](http://getpoole.com), the Jekyll butler.

### Built on Poole

Poole is the Jekyll Butler, serving as an upstanding and effective foundation for Jekyll themes by [@mdo](https://twitter.com/mdo). Poole, and every theme built on it (like Hyde here) includes the following:

* Complete Jekyll setup included (layouts, config, [404](/404), [RSS feed](/atom.xml), posts, and [example page](/about))
* Mobile friendly design and development
* Easily scalable text and component sizing with `rem` units in the CSS
* Support for a wide gamut of HTML elements
* Related posts (time-based, because Jekyll) below each post
* Syntax highlighting, courtesy Pygments (the Python-based code snippet highlighter)

### Hyde features

In addition to the features of Poole, Hyde adds the following:

* Sidebar includes support for textual modules and a dynamically generated navigation with active link support
* Two orientations for content and sidebar, default (left sidebar) and [reverse](https://github.com/poole/lanyon#reverse-layout) (right sidebar), available via `<body>` classes
* [Eight optional color schemes](https://github.com/poole/hyde#themes), available via `<body>` classes

[Head to the readme](https://github.com/poole/hyde#readme) to learn more.

### Browser support

Hyde is by preference a forward-thinking project. In addition to the latest versions of Chrome, Safari (mobile and desktop), and Firefox, it is only compatible with Internet Explorer 9 and above.

### Download

Hyde is developed on and hosted with GitHub. Head to the <a href="https://github.com/poole/hyde">GitHub repository</a> for downloads, bug reports, and features requests.

Thanks!
